# The-Fast-and-the-Curious
Kaggle's Speed Dating Data Visualization Logistic Regression Modeling

With clear research goals of four research questions regarding gender differences, differences between expectation and reality, and other detailed differences, this research explores and analyzes the Speed Dating Experiment dataset from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/annavictoria/speed-dating-experiment). 

Human’s choices of partners is a permanent research topic of the world, and dataset from numerous studies are available on the Internet. Both common sense and some research bring up interesting questions like: Are there gender differences in mate selection?  Is similar backgrounds important? Do people really know what they want? Aiming at looking deep into these questions, the research goals for this study have been concluded as four questions as follows:
1.	What are some most/least desirable attributes in a male partner? Does this differ for female partners?
2.	How important do people think attractiveness is in potential mate selection vs. its real impact?
3.	Are shared interests more important than a shared racial background?
4.	Can people accurately predict their own perceived value in the dating market?

By answering the four research questions at the beginning, our conclusions are: 1. Attractiveness, fun and shared interests contributes the most to both genders. As male choosing female partners, sincerity and ambition are comparatively the least desirable attributes. And they do not care about intelligence. As females choosing male partners, ambition is not preferred as males’ selections. Although intelligence is still not significant, it is more important than males think it is. And they do not care about sincerity.  2. Females think intelligence is more important than attractiveness at the beginning, while males are seeking the opposite way. While the actual result shows that they both over weigh attractiveness than intelligence, and male participants know themselves better than females. 3.Yes. Shared interests are more important than a shared racial background for both genders since the former is significant while the latter is not in their decisions of saying yes in dates.  4. Males can more or less predict what kind of partners they want in speed dating, however females are not as good as males in such predictions. 
Due to the model limitation, future studies can focus on more variables from the dataset. And we did run other diagnostic test for residuals and outliers (Appendix B Figure 18,19,22,25), which shows that we might get better & more accurate result after deleting the outliers. This shows another possible future research direction.  
